#Guide Entry 03: Configurations

The file `config.js` contains all our configuration options, global variables, initial values or definitions of items, author information etc. A whole rundown of the configurations is given below. Open up the file in any text editor to follow along.

####Blog Name
Set the `blogName` variable to the name of your blog. By default it is '__geminiBlog__', however, you might like to use your own logo/html section for the header, feel free to do so in `index.html`, and don't forget to comment out the JS part that sets the name.

#### Author Information
This section sets the author name, contact information.

* `author` : Author name
* `contactLinks` : contains the contact information, if it is to a social network such as Github or twitter, you can set the fields `id` and `url` separately, or combine them together in the `url` field, just as you would do with your homepage.These contact icons are provided by default...

	* `homepage` 
	* `mail` 
	* `github` 
	* `linkedin` 
	* `twitter` 

####Global Definitions
The variables defined here are used throughout the app, so remove/changing them might bring ill effects.

* `repoBase` : If you keep all your entries in a single place like me, this is where you define it. Then you can register the entries just by their file name, and the app will find them. Otherwise, you will need to write to full link to the `.md` file when registering them. 

* `use_async` : This feature enables the use of *asynchronous* XMLHttpRequest, it is under development as we speak.

* `timeout` : Time in seconds after which an entry is considered to have 404'd.

* `containerDiv` : The main `div` element used to compose the entry elements. This is a wrapper for the elements generated by the view functions.

* `sidebarDiv` : The sidebar 'div' element. Hidden by default, but with this you can set a list of entries to be displayed beside the main entry. Sort of like a classic blog setup.

* `posTop` : If you have a long header or would like a specific amount of the page to be scrolled automatically when displaying an entry. Set this variable to the value in pixels.

* `freshNum` : The number of entries shown be default on the landing page.

* `snippetLength` : The number of characters shown of an entry in the landing page. Set this to a moderate amount.

####Markdown Parsing Options
The markdown parser takes some options when parsing markdown, so they are also provided in the configuration, along with sane defaults.

* `gfm` : Enables Github Flavoured Markdown (true).

* `tables` : Enables GFM tables (true).

* `breaks` : Enable GFM line breaks (false).

* `pedantic` : Conform to obscure parts of markdown.pl as much as possible. (false).

* `sanitize` : Sanitize the output. Ignore any HTML that has been input (true). 

* `smartlists` : Use smarter list behavior than the original markdown. May eventually be default with the old behavior moved into pedantic (true).

* `smartypants` : Use "smart" typographic punctuation for things like quotes and dashes (false).

####Variables
So, you have a piece of text that you use more than often in your blog, say a greeting or signature, or catchphrase? There is no need to type that every time you author a new post, or change each of them if needed. Just set a variable for that.

#####What's a variable?
Variables are single words wrapped in a prefix and postfix that are considered as a shortcut for a value or snippet, and the text is replaced with the latter before parsing it into html.

The default prefix is `{|`,  
and the postfix is `|}`,  
so when a variable name is say, *var*,  
the variable name used in markdown would be `{|var|}`

To define a variable, you would need to assign a value to the variable, one that would replace each of its occurrence(s) in an entry. The object list containing the variables has two members,

* `name` : The variable name string, without the prefixes. They are added on-the-fly before the replacement.

* `value` : The value. Can be any piece of text string, a link, or markdown itself.

####Registering New Entries
Registering a new entry is pretty straightforward, any invocation of the register function have the arguments passed to it shown below:

* `link` : Link to the markdown file, **required**, if you have `repoBase` defined, write the entries in relation to repoBase, i.e the file link

>$projectlink/entries/my-first-post.md  

with repoBase set to `$projectlink/entries/`, becomes

>my-first-post.md

* `title` : A working-title of the entry, **required**, to generate the anchor. Also this title is used in archive view, or in the breadcrumbs.

* `pubDate` : Publication date of the entry, **optional**. Currently only acceptable format is 'Monthname day, Year' as in **January 1, 1970**.

* `tags` : Comma-separated names of categories the post belongs to, **optional**.

####Error messages
These are the messages displayed when the app runs into an error, or falls on its face. The main two errors are defined as 

* `error404` : Displayed when the fetching of an entry times out.

* `error50x` : On a server error.

Also, if the app finds no entries at any time, the error `noMoreEntries` is displayed.
